Here we go, so let's go back to our kata
machine that we installed yesterday.
If you're not familiar with the kata
machine, you can go get it right here.
It's at my GitHub/kata-machine, the README
is a bit risque as I mentioned yesterday,
here we go.
So we're gonna jump back in, and we're
gonna go to whatever day you've generated.
I think I generated a few extra in here,
and
we're gonna go through these three files.
BT, binary tree, InOrder,
PostOrder, and PreOrder.
So we'll just start with PreOrder
cuz I think that's the easiest and
what we're given is the head to the tree.
Usually we call this the head or
the root, I tend to call the head and
what I want to return out
are the visited nodes in that order.
So we're gonna do a pre order array of
our tree, so how are we gonna do that?
Well, in general, what I tend to do is
always create a second function whenever
I'm doing recursion, right?
So let's do a function walk
that takes in just a node,
it doesn't have to be a specific note,
all right?
We owe binary we're not gonna just simply
assume that this is the head, let's see,
what are we doing?
It's a number IRJI already
have it as a number, awesome.
And then I'm also gonna have our path,
which is a number array and
then I can also return it back out
just to make it super convenient.
Awesome, and so one more thing remember,
when we're doing recursion,
we have to consider our base case.
What is the base case of a traversal?
>> I mean, you've seen something or
not or if you?
>> Nope, so
if you're seen something or not,
no because a traversal luckily uses
the stack to keep ordering for us.
The function call stack to
keep ordering for us, so
the traversal really or
the base case if you really
think about it is when we are at
a node that doesn't exist.
We've gone to a child that's
not actually there, so
the best case where we stop recursing
is right here, that is the spot.
Please, we can no longer keep going down,
we are done recursing, we can say, hey,
we will stop here at this moment.
So let's go here and
go if not current then return path,
there we go cuz we're just
making it convenient.
Even though we're passing in path we're
also returning path and it just makes it
super convenient for down here cuz then I
can just go work turn a walk head array.
Super convenient with either,
you don't have to do that but
I just find it convenient.
There we go so, that's the base case
we've gotten to the point in which we
do not wish to keep recursing or
we cannot actually recurse any longer.
So now remember I also told you yesterday
that in recursion Aug actually comes
with three sub steps and the three
sub steps of the recursive step is.
Pre, recurse, post and I did that
intentionally because I wanted today
to be easier, because now we're
doing a pre and in order and a post.
So you can imagine where
each of these operations go.
So since we're in a pre walk,
we will first push into our
path the node value, right.
So path push, current, value, we're doing
this as the first step in our recursion
here, and just to make it
clear I'll put it right there.
And then now we need to recurse, so
we need to visit the left hand side and
then the right hand side.
Typically when you're doing traversals
of a tree especially a binary tree,
you always traverse left than right, why?
Maybe a binary search tree influenced
this, I don't know, you don't have to
technically, it would just be weird if I
saw something that didn't do it, right?
It's like one of those
conventions where yeah,
in a linked list you can call it next and
previous or you can just call it A and B.
It doesn't really matter
what you call it but
it would just be weird
to do it differently.
All right, so let's just do that for
niceness and now let's recurse,
so I'm gonna recall walk with
curr.left and curr.right.
There we go and then of course, don't
forget to put in the actual path oopsies.
There we go, we got the path in there and
now it's a null, I forgot I did that.
That's how silly of me to do that,
there we go, so
now we have null as the other value.
So if we hit a node in
which it doesn't exist,
it will just simply return else we keep
on recusing until we get to the bottom.
There we go, now post,
do we do anything in post?
No, we've already visited the node by
pushing into the path, then we walk,
we're done.
So the last thing I need to do is
just return out the path, right?
There we go, so as we recurse, we will
keep walking, keep walking, keep walking,
hit a dead node.
Or hit an empty node, go back up
the stack add the node to the value,
go down the other way if it's empty,
come back up and I'll just keep on going.
So hopefully this all makes sense, is
there any questions right here cuz I feel
like this is a very fundamental
part of tree traversal.
And we'd much rather answer any questions
right now than have it be ignored because
we're only gonna be doing tree traversals
for quite some time coming up.
>> What does returning path and
base case do?
>> So the reason why return path and
base case and
right here is that effectively a it's my
signature right I have it right here.
But it's really just a convenience here,
what I'm gonna do is I'm going like
this I'm gonna put this as void.
And I'm just gonna simply return and
then I don't need to put
anything right here, right?
We don't need to return,
well that means right here I
need to change this signature.
So I'm gonna go like this const path
equals an array then I'll have to pass in
path so it gets mutated as it walks and
then return back out path.
It's really just a convenience more than
anything else, so there is no reason
why you have to do that, other than if, I
say my return signature is a number array.
Then I have to return that path no matter
what, even if it is a base case and
it actually doesn't really
leave the recursion.
And so you just consistency compilers is
the answer, we got one more question.
>> From someone who doesn't know type
script, what's a number is it in an int?
>> All right, so a number is
a beautiful value in which is either
a floating point number, or I think
it's a floating point nearish 64 bits or
it can be an integer up
to 2 to the 53 minus 1.
It's pretty standard operation really in
any language is 2 to the 53 minus 1 we've
all been there,
who hasn't been there before, right?
Which actually is a huge pain in the butt
because we'll say WebSocket algorithm
if you get a 127 in the second byte you
have to do a 64 bit read of a number.
In which JavaScript can't do that, so you
have to do like a big in read of a number,
very, very annoying, it's just terrible.
Anyways sorry, keep going.
>> Do you need to set path from the return
value of the walk which is called in walk?
>> Do I need to set the what?
One more time.
>> Do you need to set path from the return
value of the walk which is called in walk?
>> I don't need to set, I mean the only
thing okay, so, I think I understand
the question, the question,
I believe I'm gonna try to restate it.
Do I need to mutate path in any way or
do I need to mutate or
hold on to the value
that's returned from walk?
I actually am not quite
sure what it's asking but
I'll try to explain it the best I
can what we're doing with this path.
So the path is an array in JavaScript
everything that you pass and is passed and
effectively by pointer
unless if it's a number.
And so at that point,
if I mutate whatever is passed in,
it will actually happen to the value
that was containing it, right?
This is not an immutable item, this is
not C++ where if you pass in a vector,
it actually copies it unless
if you pass it by reference,
just think of it as passed
in by reference always.
And so when I pass this in, as I walk
I mutate the thing that was passed in.
And so I mutate it, then I pass
it into the next walk function,
I mutate that pass into
the next walk function.
So everything will be added in
order of wherever I put this in.
If it's pre in or post,
and then afterwards,
I just simply have to return it because
it's been mutated by the walk function.
Does that make sense?
Yeah.
>> Base case should return path, no?
>> Well, I took that out, remember to
show that I don't actually need to return
the number it was just
simply a convenience.
So I don't have to do this little song and
dance right here where I create the item,
pass it in or turn it out.
Instead, I can just do this
by simply returning it right
here return path,
I'm not creating anything, right?
Cuz when I return path I'm just returning
a reference to it, right I'm just simply
returning a reference to something
that was already created,
it just was created right here.
So I don't have to create that
handle to it within my function.
I just like it better,
it's not like it's anything fantastic.
All right, I think we're good to go, so
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take all
this, and I'm gonna copy all of it.
Just to make this a lot easier,
we're gonna copy all of it and
then we're gonna open up BTInOrder.
All right, so I'm gonna paste all of it,
go all the way down,
move my walk into my new function and
then erase the pre order one.
And now we have the exact same function
inside here we have pretty much the exact
same setup and I'm gonna move this.
I need to do something with this, right
cuz this is where we visited the node,
correct?
All right, so what do I need to do
with this in an in-order traversal?
If you don't remember, this is an in-order
traversal is this one right here.
We need to go down our left hand
side until we can no longer go left,
then we visit the node,
then we go down our right hand side.
And then that eventually
bubbles all the way back up,
so what is the change we
need to make to this code?
Right now we are visiting the node,
then going left, then going right.
In in order, we go left,
visit the node, go right So
We just put it In bitwixe, the two walks,
right we split that walk in
twain It is fantastic, right?
So now we walk left until
we can no longer walk left,
we push an R value or visit the node.
Then we walk right and let the whole
algorithm redo itself, make sense?
It's just I mean,
it's just literally that simple, right?
So again,
let's just copy the whole thing and
let's open up post order and
again I'm gonna paste it all in.
Go down here, move this into the post
order function just so it's like named
beautifully, you don't even need to
do that cuz it's a default export.
Default exports don't
actually consider name, so
we could have done it any way you want to,
again what do we do here?
In a post order world, we go left,
then we go right, then we visit the node.
So how should this code change?
Well, yeah, that's right born on Friday,
we do that we push it down,
we move it down one, and bam, we got it.
So there we go, that is a post order
traversal, it's really not that hard.
In fact, I can push it down to right
here to kind of show you hey it's in
the post section of it all.
And that's it, that is a post,
a pre and in order traversal and
just to prove that I'm not lying to you
cuz I can just hear right now people
really like why are you saying?
MPX gest I believe if I only do order this
might get all three I don't know how many
tests we're gonna get.
Yes we got them all,
done look at that we got all three
of them first try that's
a triple threat first try.
So I get compared to the doctor sometimes,
anyways that's a pretty inside baseball
joke right there I'm sorry about that.
All right so there we go we
just got done doing traversals,
all three types of traversals and
they're all fairly easy right that
was only a couple lines of code.
All right, so these types of
traversals are known as depth first,
why are they known as depth first?
Let's jump back here and
kind of explain why that is,
when you do recursion obviously you keep
calling a function with itself, right?
And you keep on passing in something
new until you get to a base case.
Which means if we do an in order
traversal we are going to go left all
the way until we can no longer go left.
In other words we're gonna go as deep as
possible in this tree on the left hand
side and then visit a node.
Then we're gonna go right once and
then go as left as deep as possible and
then come back and visit that node.
And so if you think about we always go
depth first, right that's what that means,
that's why it's called the DFS or depth
first search or depth first traversal.
So there we go but
now there's actually another type of
traversal which is a breadth first.
But before I do that I
wanna ask something,
what implicit data structure did we
use during a depth first search?
>> Binary node or binary tree.
>> That's the data structure
we definitely used but
doing the traversal we used
an implicit data structure.
Something in which we didn't specify but
it's actually being used.
Let me write it out, I bet you this
will make more sense once I read it,,
I wanted to do this because I
really want to strongly tie.
All these data structures together
this is from yesterday, so
right now my top note is 7,23,5.
So I'm just gonna kind of write out
in in order traversal, all right, so
if you think about it,
we first start off at 5, right?
Wait was it 7 or
5 I've already forgot okay, 7 at the top,
pretend they wrote 7 their first drive.
All right so we start out at 7 and
then we visit what is it?
20 something, my goodness how have
I forgot this in my head it's 23,
23 awesome 23.
And then we visit 5, right and
then we print out the value at 5,
then we try to go right and
we can't go right.
So we pop it off then we're at 23 and
we try to go right
which of course we can go right and
so a 4 gets put on.
We can no longer go, we cannot do any
more traversal and we printed out and
that gets popped off, then we can no
longer do any more traversing at 23, so
that gets popped off.
What data structure is that?
Boom stack that's just a stack
we're implicitly using how
we call functions as a stack.
Does that make sense?
I think it really doesn't it and really
helps you visualize I think recursion
a bit better to realize you're just
pushing and popping on a stack.
That's all you're doing which means we can
technically do any of these traversals
without using recursion.
We just simply have to add
the children to a stack and
we do the same thing,
pretty neat I think it's pretty neat.